Added eventing tutorials to docs (#14706)
kyma-project/kyma: docs/03-tutorials/00-eventing/evnt-04-change-max-in-flight-in-sub.md

---
title: Changing Events Max-In-Flight in Subscriptions
---

> In this tutorial, we will show how to set idle "in-flight messages" limit in Kyma Subscriptions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this tutorial, you learn how to set idle "in-flight messages" limit in Kyma Subscriptions.
```

> The "in-flight messages" config defines the number of events which will be forwarded in parallel to the sink by Eventing Services without waiting for a response. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The "in-flight messages" config defines the number of events that Eventing forwards in parallel to the sink, without waiting for a response. 
```
Trying to simplify this sentence

## Prerequisites

1. Provision a [Kyma Cluster](../../02-get-started/01-quick-install.md).
2. (Optional) Deploy [Kyma Dashboard](../../01-overview/main-areas/ui/ui-01-gui.md) on the Kyma cluster using the following command. Alternatively, you can also use `kubectl` CLI.
   ```bash
   kyma dashboard
   ```
3. (Optional) Install [CloudEvents Conformance Tool](https://github.com/cloudevents/conformance) for publishing events. Alternatively, you can also use `curl` to publish events.
   ```bash
   go install github.com/cloudevents/conformance/cmd/cloudevents@latest
   ```

## Create a Workload

> First, create a sample Function that prints out the received event to console:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
First, create a sample Function that prints out the received event to console.
To simulate prolonged event processing, in this example, the Function waits for 5 seconds before returning the response.

```

<div tabs name="Deploy a Function" group="create-workload">
  <details open>
  <summary label="Kyma Dashboard">
  Kyma Dashboard
  </summary>

1. Go to **Namespaces** and select the default Namespace.
2. Go to **Workloads** > **Functions** and click **Create Function +**.
3. Name the Function `lastorder` and click **Create**.
4. In the inline editor for the Function, replace its source with the following code:
   ```js
   module.exports = {
     main: async function (event, context) {
       console.log("Processing event:", event.data);
       // sleep/wait for 5 seconds
       await new Promise(r => setTimeout(r, 5 * 1000));
       console.log("Completely processed event:", event.data);
       return;
     } 
   }
   ```

>    The Function will wait for 5 seconds before returning the response in order to simulate prolonged event processing.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
Adding this to the introductory section

5. Save your changes.
6. Wait a few seconds for the Function to have status `RUNNING`.

  </details>
  <details>
  <summary label="kubectl">
  kubectl
  </summary>

```bash
cat <<EOF | kubectl apply -f -
  apiVersion: serverless.kyma-project.io/v1alpha1
  kind: Function
  metadata:
    labels:
      serverless.kyma-project.io/build-resources-preset: local-dev
      serverless.kyma-project.io/function-resources-preset: S
      serverless.kyma-project.io/replicas-preset: S
    name: lastorder
    namespace: default
  spec:
    deps: '{ "dependencies": {}}'
    maxReplicas: 1
    minReplicas: 1
    source: |
      module.exports = {
        main: async function (event, context) {
          console.log("Processing event:", event.data);
          // sleep/wait for 5 seconds
          await new Promise(r => setTimeout(r, 5 * 1000));
          console.log("Completely processed event:", event.data);
          return;
        } 
      }
EOF
```

> The Function will wait for 5 seconds before returning the response in order to simulate prolonged event processing.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
Adding this to the introductory section

<br/>
If the resources were created successfully, the command returns this message:

```bash
function.serverless.kyma-project.io/lastorder created
```

To check the Function status, run:

```bash
kubectl get functions -n default lastorder
```

> **NOTE:** You might need to wait a few seconds for the Function to be ready.

  </details>
</div>

## Create a Subscription with Max-In-Flight config

> Next, we will create a [Subscription](../../05-technical-reference/00-custom-resources/evnt-01-subscription.md) custom resource. We're going to subscribe for events of the type: `order.received.v1`. We will set the `maxInFlightMessages` to `5`, so that the Eventing Services forwards maximum 5 events in parallel to the sink without waiting for a response.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Next, create a [Subscription](../../05-technical-reference/00-custom-resources/evnt-01-subscription.md) custom resource. Subscribe for events of the type: `order.received.v1` and set the `maxInFlightMessages` to `5`, so that the Eventing Services forwards maximum 5 events in parallel to the sink without waiting for a response.
```

             type: exact
             value: ''
           eventType:
             property: type
             type: exact
             value: sap.kyma.custom.myapp.order.received.v1
   ```

4. Click **Create**.
5. Wait a few seconds for the Subscription to have status `READY`.

  </details>
  <details>
  <summary label="kubectl">
  kubectl
  </summary>

Run:
```bash
cat <<EOF | kubectl apply -f -
   apiVersion: eventing.kyma-project.io/v1alpha1
   kind: Subscription
   metadata:
     name: lastorder-sub
     namespace: default
   spec:
     config:
       maxInFlightMessages: 5
     sink: 'http://lastorder.default.svc.cluster.local'
     filter:
       filters:
         - eventSource:
             property: source
             type: exact
             value: ''
           eventType:
             property: type
             type: exact
             value: sap.kyma.custom.myapp.order.received.v1
EOF
```

To check that the Subscription was created and is ready, run:
```bash
kubectl get subscriptions lastorder-sub -o=jsonpath="{.status.ready}"
```

The operation was successful if the returned status says `true`.
  </details>
</div>

## Trigger the workload with multiple events

> We created the `lastorder` Function, and subscribed to the `order.received.v1` events by creating a Subscription CR.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You created the `lastorder` Function, and subscribed to the `order.received.v1` events by creating a Subscription CR.
```

> We will publish 15 events at once and see how the Eventing Service trigger the workload.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Next, publish 15 events at once and see how the Eventing Service trigger the workload.
```
Here, it's "Eventing Service", singular, but capitalized 🤔

> In this example, we'll port-forward the [Event Publisher Proxy](../../05-technical-reference/00-architecture/evnt-01-architecture.md) Service to localhost.

Reviewer: Combining it with the first step
```suggestion
```

> 1. Port-forward the Event Publisher Proxy Service to localhost. We will use port `3000`. Run:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Port-forward the [Event Publisher Proxy](../../05-technical-reference/00-architecture/evnt-01-architecture.md) Service to localhost, using port `3000`. Run:
```

title: Changing Events Max-In-Flight in Subscriptions
---

In this tutorial, you learn how to set idle "in-flight messages" limit in Kyma Subscriptions.

> The "in-flight messages" config defines the number of events that Eventing forwards in parallel to the sink, without waiting for a response. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The "in-flight messages" config defines the number of events that Kyma Eventing forwards in parallel to the sink, without waiting for a response. 
```

## Prerequisites

> Follow the [prerequisites steps](../../02-get-started/04-trigger-workload-with-event.md#prerequisites) mentioned in the getting-started guide.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Follow the [prerequisites steps](../../02-get-started/04-trigger-workload-with-event.md#prerequisites) in the Getting Started guide.
```

## Create a Function

First, create a sample Function that prints out the received event to console.
To simulate prolonged event processing, in this example, the Function waits for 5 seconds before returning the response.

> 

Reviewer: The difference between the following instructions and the ones in `../../02-get-started/04-trigger-workload-with-event.md#create-a-function` is only the sample code, right?

If yes, then you could replace this whole section with something like:

```suggestion
2. Create a Function by following the [instructions](../../02-get-started/04-trigger-workload-with-event.md#create-a-function) in the Getting Started guide.

> **NOTE:** For this example, instead of the default code sample, replace the Function source with the following code:
```

Author: updated

## Trigger the workload with multiple events

You created the `lastorder` Function, and subscribed to the `order.received.v1` events by creating a Subscription CR.

> Next, publish 15 events at once and see how the Kyma Eventing trigger the workload.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Next, publish 15 events at once and see how Kyma Eventing triggers the workload.
```

1. Port-forward the [Event Publisher Proxy](../../05-technical-reference/00-architecture/evnt-01-architecture.md) Service to localhost, using port `3000`. Run:
   ```bash
   kubectl -n kyma-system port-forward service/eventing-event-publisher-proxy 3000:80
   ```

> 2. Now publish 15 events to the Event Publisher Proxy Service. In another Terminal window run:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Now publish 15 events to the Event Publisher Proxy Service. In another terminal window, run:
```

## Verify the event delivery

> To verify that the events ware properly delivered, check the logs of the Function by following the [instructions](../../02-get-started/04-trigger-workload-with-event.md#verify-the-event-delivery) given in the getting-started guide.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To verify that the events ware properly delivered, check the logs of the Function (see [Verify the event delivery](../../02-get-started/04-trigger-workload-with-event.md#verify-the-event-delivery)).
```

Completely processed event: { orderCode: '15' }
```

> You can see that only 5 events at maximum were delivered to the Function in parallel and as soon as the Function completes the processing of the event and returns the response, the Kyma Eventing delivers the next in-line event to the Function. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can see that only 5 events at maximum were delivered to the Function in parallel and as soon as the Function completes the processing of the event and returns the response, Kyma Eventing delivers the next in-line event to the Function. 
```
